Interface definition files and templates for implementations 
for the ITAPS interfaces.

--------------
What is ITAPS?
--------------
The Interoperable Technolgoies for Advanced Petascale Simulations (ITAPS)
center is one of the mathematics enabling technologies centers in the
Department of Energy's Scientific Discovery through Advanced Computing
(SciDAC) program.

SciDAC applications have a demonstrated need for advanced software tools to
manage the complexities associated with sophisticated geometry, mesh, and
field manipulation tasks, particularly as computer architectures move
toward the petascale. The Center for Interoperable Technologies for
Advanced Petascale Simulations (ITAPS) will deliver interoperable and
interchangeable mesh, geometry, and field manipulation services that are of
direct use to SciDAC applications. The premise of our technology
development goal is that such services can be provided as libraries that
can be used with minimal intrusion into application codes. Through SciDAC-1
funding, the ITAPS team developed and deployed a number of advanced
technologies including front tracking, mesh quality improvement via
smoothing and swapping, and adaptive mesh refinement (AMR), that were used
by application scientists and provide ample evidence of the viability of
this approach.

Going forward, we will continue to develop the most promising of the
technologies identified in SciDAC-1 and invest in critical new areas
identified by SciDAC application teams. In particular, we will develop new
geometry, mesh, and field services that support PDE-constrained design
optimization on deforming geometries, mesh alignment, AMR-front tracking,
verification, solution transfer operations, dynamic partitioning and other
parallel tools for petascale simulations. Underlying these services are the
common interfaces that provide data-structure neutral access to mesh,
geometry, and field information. These interfaces are the key to providing
uniform access to all ITAPS tools and to creating interoperability among
ITAPS technologies. Using these technologies we will work with application
scientists to develop the next generation of petascale simulation codes. In
particular, we will continue our already strong collaborations in
accelerator modeling, fusion, and microbial cell modeling and have
identified new areas for collaboration in astrophysics, radiation
transport, and groundwater flow modeling. 

------------------------
What is in this package?
------------------------
include:  Interface files for ITAPS geometry, mesh, parallel mesh and 
relations interfaces.  These files provide the interface definitions.

src_templates:  Implementations of the ITAPS interfaces can choose to 
support all functions in the interfaces or only a subset of the functions.  
These template files provide a complete "implementation" in which NO
functions are supported; that is, all functions do nothing except
return error code iBase_NOT_SUPPORTED.  An implementor can begin with
these files, editing only the functions he wishes to support.

-----------------
Point of contact:
-----------------
Karen Devine, kddevin@sandia.gov
